Update GitHub release issue templates (#17067)
OrchardCMS/OrchardCore: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/release.md

---
name: Publish a release
name: Publish a major or minor release
about: Publish a new Orchard Core release
title: 'Release v'
labels: release
assignees: ''

---

> <!-- Be sure to also read https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/latest/topics/publishing-releases/. While the checklist is in a recommended order not every step depends strictly on the previous ones.  

Reviewer: Why remove this?

Author: It's not needed as we documented exactly what we need. Extra noise for 0 added value.

Reviewer: Semantic versioning is explained only there. We could also cut down on the repetition by moving e.g. the Version Updates Checklist there and only linking to there instead of having the same bullet points twice (still have a checkbox, but only like "Version Updates Checklist, see the documentation", and have the long text only there).

Reviewer: Because you know what's on the page. I'm sure you weren't fully attentive with most of the other points either, since you already knew what to do. However, this doesn't mean that others wouldn't benefit from it, and the point of documentation is to have something that others can utilize too.

Author: I get that. But the steps in this issue are the only steps one need to do to successfully releasing a new version "even if this is their first time doing it".

Reviewer: Where does it explain how you determine the next version number? ;)

Author: That depends what are you releasing. But it's common sense that the next release is adding 1 to the patch, minor or major. If you can't decide what should the next version be, you not be doing the release to being with. ;)

Reviewer: Alright :).

`<version name>` should be replaced with the current version, e.g. "1.8.0.". -->

### Prepare the project
# Release Major or Minor Preparation Guide

Do some housekeeping on GitHub in the [main repo](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore).
## Housekeeping on GitHub

> - [ ] Assign the milestone of the release's version to this issue.

Reviewer: This needs to happen.

Author: aadded

> - [ ] **Create Release Branch**: Create a new release branch named `release/<version-name>` (e.g., `release/3.0.0`) from the `main` branch. This branch will serve as the foundation for upcoming patch releases and facilitate versioned updates.

Reviewer: If the branch is for patch relases, then it should rather be named with the pattern `release/3.0.x`, because `3.0.0.` seems like it's exactly for that release. Or `release/3.x.x` for a new major version.

Author: updated

- [ ] **Check CI Workflow**: Verify that the [release_ci](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/blob/main/.github/workflows/release_ci.yml) workflow is using the correct .NET version.
- [ ] **Update Documentation**: Open a new pull request for the following updates:
  - **Update `OrchardCore.Commons.props`**: Set `<VersionSuffix></VersionSuffix>` to prevent preview build numbers and ensure `VersionPrefix` matches the released version.
  - **Update Module Versions**: Modify `src/OrchardCore/OrchardCore.Abstractions/Modules/Manifest/ManifestConstants.cs` as necessary.
  - **Finalize Release Notes**: Complete the release notes in the documentation, including:

>     - Highlights and goals of the release.
>     - Prerequisites for running the new version.
>     - Upgrade steps and any breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Overview of the release's highlights and goals. What do you want people to remember this release for?
   - Prerequisites. What framework version do you need, anything else to work with Orchard?
   - Upgrade steps, any migration necessary from previous versions, and any breaking changes.
```

## Translation Updates

- [ ] **Update Translations**: After finalizing code changes, update translations in the [Translations project](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore.Translations):
  - Update .po files using [PoExtractor](https://github.com/lukaskabrt/PoExtractor) to refresh [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/orchard-core).
  - Publish the new version on NuGet.
  - Update the `OrchardCore.Translations.All` package reference in the main repository's `./Dependencies.Packages.props` file.

## Creating the New Release

1. Navigate to the [GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/releases/new).
2. In the "**Choose a tag**" menu, enter the new version number (e.g., `v3.0.0`) and select "**+ Create tag: v... on publish**."
3. Change the target branch from `main` to your release branch (e.g., `release/3.0`).
4. Enter the version number in the Title field (e.g., `3.0.0`).
5. Click **Generate release notes** to automatically create release notes.
6. Ensure the "Set as the latest release" checkbox is checked, then click **Publish release**.

> ## Validation

Reviewer: This should happen before the release, with the preview feed, so move it before Creating the New Release. Same in the other template.

  - Orchard's [Red Hat Ecosystem Catalog profile](https://catalog.redhat.com/software/applications/detail/223797) for the last certified version.
  - [Red Hat Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com/articles/3078) for the latest version details.
  - [Certification guide](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/latest/topics/red-hat-ecosystem-catalog-certification/) for certification steps.

## Post-Release Tasks

- [ ] **Create New Milestone**: Set up a new milestone for the next release and close the previous one.
- [ ] **Prepare Documentation for Next Version**: Create a new release notes file for the next version in the `OrchardCore.Docs` project (e.g., `/releases/4.0.0.md`). Exclude it from navigation and validation under `not_in_nav` in `mkdocs.yml`.
- [ ] **Update Commons.props for Next Release**: Modify `OrchardCore.Commons.props` with the next release number and set `<VersionSuffix>preview</VersionSuffix>` for preview builds.
- [ ] **Reassign Issues**: Reassign all closed issues from the current version milestone to the upcoming version milestone.

## Publicize the Release

Share the news of the new release with the community:

> - [ ] Tweet about the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Post about the release to X via [the Orchard Core X (Twitter) repo](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/Orchard-Core-X-Twitter).
```
